Winston Peng        3/7/2017 
Period 8          Mr. Kim Brave New World By Alfred Huxley Rumination Paper 
Nothing is ever enough. Obstacle Golf, synthetic music, clothing, sex, feelies. Seeing the 
same old thing can get boring for a while, and Lenina has gotten bored of civilization. Anxious 
for some more action, she decides to leave civilization temporarily, and to visit a savage 
reservation close by with Bernard Marx, a strange oddball who has always felt like an outsider 
on account of his height and the way he thinks. Before they depart, they decide to go out together 
in preparation for the journey. This doesn’t go the way either of them planned -- Bernard gets mad, yet refuses to take the ?soma 
? Lenina offers him, preferring to try to deal with his anger using other coping mechanisms. Later, Bernard buckles under the pressure after attempting to release 
his frustration by explaining his feelings to Lenina, who instead makes him feel like an outsider. Bernard gives up trying to cope with his anger with his own means and takes ?soma 
? instead. Bernard later regrets this and explains that he’s trying to do an experiment where he’s resisting 
his feelings and desires, saying that their society acts like “‘Adults intellectually and during 
working hours,” he went on. ‘Infants where feeling and desire are concerned.’” (94). 
At first, it may seem as though Bernard is trying to criticize his society’s desire to 
consume. He’s saying that although the people living in the World State act very mature during 
working hours, and are very intelligent, they’re still unable to cope with their feelings and desires 
on their own, which is kind of like an infant unable to do much on his own. They need tools like 
soma
?
 in order to help them get over those feelings, just like an infant might need an adult for 
help. However, that’s not what he’s trying to say. This is the World State, a drastically different 
society from our own, so when Bernard says “infant”, he has very different imagery. Whenever 
we see infants in the World State, it’s in the conditioning centers, where Bernard works, most 
notably in neo-pavlovian experiments, where they would expose the baby to something like a 
book, and then shock them. They would do this over and over again. Book, shock, book, shock, 
book, shock, shock, shock, shock, shock. Eventually, the baby no longer sees the books, only the 
shock that they had received. As a result, to Bernard, infants aren’t these helpless organisms, 
these are not even organic beings to Bernard, as there is no way you could be so inhumane to 
another organic being. Bernard instead sees these infants as animals. Stupid beings, easily 
controlled by anything, like conditioning. He sees feelings and emotions being the things to 
control them. 
Feelings and desires at times take control of us in today’s society as well. The other day, I 
was watching the news on daily weather report, and the weatherman was talking about the 
current weather. It was a particularly warm day in the middle of February, about the temperature 
of summertime. The news anchors were all talking about how sunny it was, and how the 
temperature was breaking records all over New York, as the hottest it’s ever been in the middle 
of February. To my astonishment, I found the news reporters were laughing at this news. 
I was outraged. Didn’t they see the big issue in this? It was the prime example of global 
warming, and how drastically our planet is changing. It was a signal, a warning sent out by 
mother nature for help, and yet here were these people, laughing, joking at her warning, seeing it 
as a compliment. They were feeling joy, and desire for higher temperatures. This was the news 
too, a place where people got their opinions and what they saw in the world. What the news 
anchor is doing is they’re using their own feelings to manipulate us to feel the same way. By 
laughing, they’re trying to get us to react in the same way to these news, trying to make us laugh 
along with them. Laugh, while the world burns down. In my situation, you can see two polar 
opposites, the newspaper anchors, and me. The news anchors respond to the news with 
happiness, while I respond to the news with glumness. I understand how this a warning from 
nature to try to warn us of her inevitable collapse, the news anchors see this as nature rewarding 
them, giving them an accomplishment for not really doing much work to get the 
accomplishment. I see truth, the news anchors are missing the point. 
This situation is very similar to what ends up happening to John. John’s mother was born 
in the World State, however John himself has only known the savage reservation, until Bernard 
takes him to the World State. Here John feels like an outsider, and like me, he sees the truth in all 
of the feelings and desires that are being used to control the people in the World State. This truth 
isolates John, making him different from society to the point where he runs away from it, just 
like how finding my own truth isolated me from all of the news anchors laughing at global 
warming. In the end, John is unable to avoid the reaches of civilization as he is eventually found 
and sought out as people wish to figure out why he’s cleansing himself. John is eventually 
visited by Lenina, the person that he first met other than Bernard. Lenina had always represented 
to John all of the good parts of society, she represents to John all of his desires, all of his 
feelings, all of those things that John was trying to fight off, now coming back to him in the form 
of Lenina. John viciously strikes out at Lenina, fighting with the intent of fighting off all his 
feelings and desires. It is through this fight that John realizes another truth. That his feelings and 
desires are too much to fight off, that the World State will forever try to manipulate them to get 
back at him. There is no escape from society, and his only hope is to succumb to it, and become 
blind and subservient like the rest of the population. This truth once again isolates him, except 
now he has no where on Earth where truth he can be isolated, as he can never avoid his feelings 
and desires, as he has learned that the World State, the literal representation of all his feelings 
and desires is inescapable. He isolates himself where he can never be found, by fleeing to the 
underworld. We see this idea of truth isolating also in other instances. We see that Bernard, 
Helmholtz and Musthapa Mond, all characters that have found a truth in society about how these 
feelings and desires that people have are trying to control them, have all been isolated. Bernard 
and Helmholtz are isolated by being shipped to Iceland, while Musthapa Mond is isolated 
through his social status as it’s so much higher than everyone else, no one is able to keep him 
company. What ?Brave New World? is trying to say is that we cannot hope to give ourselves into our feelings and desires. We need to show some self-restraint, and to not do whatever we want to do, 
when we want to do it. Our desire for more, whether it’s more entertainment, more food, more 
clothes, more money, will be used against us. It can be used to control us, it will be used to 
manipulate us, make us reduced to just parts of a whole unit body. Once we go down the path, 
once our feelings and desires begin to control us, there is no way to leave. Feeling and desire will 
cloud the truth, drown it out for all of us, and for those that are able to find the truth, they are left 
with nothing but isolation. Our society will be too far gone. We will all be reduced to mere parts 
of a giant system. At all costs, we need to resist the allure of feeling and desire, and thus preventing preventing those dangerous isolating truths from being created.